ROX-25356: managing preview features (#79640)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/managing-feature-flags.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuration/managing-preview-features.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="managing-feature-flags_{context}"]
= Managing Feature Flags

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer: Is it fine now?

* Access to the environment where the {product-title-short} component is deployed.
* Permission to modify environment variables.
* Understanding the differences between `dev-preview` and `tech-preview` release stages. For more information see the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/6966848[Developer and Technology Previews: How they compare].
* Understanding if the feature flag needs to be configured before the deployment: see if the installation manifests make use of the required flag.

.Procedure

> . Identify the Feature Flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Identify the environment variable name, associated with the feature flag.
```

Consult the release notes or `/v1/featureflags` API endpoint to identify the flag for the feature you want to enable or disable.

. Modify the Feature Flag.

> * To *enable* a feature, configure the deployment of the {product-title-short} component to include the environment variable, associated to the flag, with the value set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To enable a feature, configure the environment variable associated with the flag by setting its value to `true`.
```

* To *disable* a feature, set the environment variable to `false`.

. Verify the Changes.

> Once the application is restarted or redeployed, verify that the feature has been enabled or disabled as intended:

Reviewer 2: I think this can be combined with the previous sentence. [See IBM Style guidance on "once"](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#o)

* Check the output of the `/v1/featureflags` API endpoint.
* Check the application functionality related to the feature.
* Review logs or monitoring tools for any errors or confirmation messages.

== Best Practices

> * *Dev-Preview*: Do not enable dev-preview features.

Reviewer 2: - Lists need an introduction (same for troubleshooting) such as "Follow these best practices for using the feature flag":
- Normally we wouldn't use this format (bold item, then sentence) for best practices. If you are intent on using it, maybe use the definition list format? https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-lists

* *Testing:* Always test feature changes in a staging environment before applying them to production.
* *Documentation:* Keep a record of all feature flags and their current status.
* *Rollback:* Be prepared to revert the changes if the feature causes issues.

== Troubleshooting

> * *Feature Not Appearing:* Ensure the environment variable is correctly named and set. Check application logs for any errors related to feature flag parsing.

Reviewer 2: My recommendation is to have these in sentence format - for example: 
```suggestion
Follow these troubleshooting guidelines:
* If the feature does not appear, ensure that the environment variable is correctly named and set. Check application logs for any errors related to feature flag parsing.
```

> * *Application Errors:* If enabling a feature causes application errors, disable the feature and contact support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If enabling a feature causes application errors, disable the feature and contact support.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuration/managing-preview-features.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="managing-feature-flags_{context}"]
= Managing Feature Flags

== Prerequisites
* You have access to the environment where the {product-title-short} component is deployed.
* You have permission to modify environment variables.

> * You understand that the Technological Preview features might be incomplete and are provided with limited support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You understand that the Technology Preview features might be incomplete and are provided with limited support.
```

> * You know if the feature flag needs to be configured before the deployment. Check the installation manifests to see if they use the required flag.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by this? Are you trying to say that *other* feature flags may need to configured?

Reviewer: No, I tried to say that some flags can only be configured during deployment, and have no effect afterward.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "You know if the flag for the Technology Preview feature needs..." to address Stephan's question.

.Procedure

> . Identify the environment variable name, associated with the feature flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Identify the environment variable name associated with the feature flag.
```

Consult the release notes or the `/v1/featureflags` API endpoint to identify the flag for the feature you want to enable or disable.

. Modify the feature flag by completing one of the following actions:

> * To enable a feature, configure the environment variable associated with the flag by setting its value to `true`.

Reviewer 3: I would add here that the environment variable should be set either directly on the k8s deployment, via the helm chart, or via the operator CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To enable a feature, configure the environment variable associated with the flag by setting its value to `true`: either directly on the k8s deployment, or via the helm chart, or via the operator CR.
```

> * To enable a feature, configure the environment variable associated with the flag by setting its value to `true`: either directly on the k8s deployment, or via the helm chart, or via the operator CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To enable a feature, configure the environment variable associated with the flag by setting its value to `true`. Configure this directly on the Kubernetes deployment or during installation by using the Helm chart or the Operator custom resource (CR). 
```
See: 
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#kubernetes
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#v

* To disable a feature, set the environment variable associated with the flag to `false`.

. After the application is restarted or redeployed, verify that the feature has been enabled or disabled by completing the following steps:

* Check the output of the `/v1/featureflags` API endpoint.
* Check the application functionality related to the feature.
* Review logs or monitoring tools for any errors or confirmation messages.

> == Best Practices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Best practices
```
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#titles-and-headings

> == Best practices

Reviewer 2: I'm sorry, I just noticed during the merge review that the headings need [anchor IDs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-in-module-files). So the prereqs heading, this one, and the troubleshooting heading need something like the following:

```
[id="prerequisites_{context}"]
== Prerequisites

[id="best-practices_{context}"]
== Best practices
```

Follow these best practices for using the feature flag:

* Always test feature changes in a staging environment before applying them to production.
* Keep a record of all feature flags and their current status.
* Be prepared to revert the changes if the feature causes issues.

== Troubleshooting
Follow these troubleshooting guidelines:

* If the feature does not appear, ensure that the environment variable is correctly named and set. Check application logs for any errors related to feature flag parsing.

> * If enabling a feature causes application errors, disable the feature and contact support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If enabling a feature causes application errors, disable the feature and contact Red Hat Support.
```
I looked at OpenShift docs and this is how they refer to support.
